S3 has asimple web service interface that you can use to store and retrive any amount of data,at any time from anywhere on the web.
S3 service is basically used for to store large amount of data with minimum cost.
data can be stored in S3 buckets and maximum capacity of bucket is 5TB. And you can have upto 100 buckets per account.

Versioning:
 versioning is means of keeping multiple varients of an object in the same bucket.
 you can use the versioning to preserve and retrive and restore every version of every object stored in your S3 bucket. bydefault versioning is disable.

Static website Hosting:
static website delevers HTML,java script, images, videos, and other files to your website visitor and contains no serverside application code like php,or ASP .net.
typically are used to deliver personal and marketing sites.

Benifits of static website hosting:
scale up automatically.
high availability.
fast content serving with aws cloud front.
nigligible cost.

Storage classes in S3:
1. standerd frequntly accessed 
2. Intelligent teiring.
3. std infrequntly accessed.
4. One-zone infrequntly accessed.
5. S3 Glacier.
6. RRS- Ruduced redundancy storage.

Cross-region replication:
cross-region replication is used to copy objects accross AWS S3 buckets in different AWS region.

S3 Lifecycle: 

When we upload any data to s3 it goes to a standard storage class and after 30 days it could be moved to any storage class. Thus moving from one storage class to other
storage class which helps in saving amount on that data.

whenever we can store data in s3 buckets bydefault the data will be store in the std.frequenty accessed. 
when you configure the lifecycle rule to the bucket then data will be stored in std frequently accessed storege class 
for 30 days. then after 30 days will data automatically goes in to the std.infrequnty accessed storage class and its cost will be 0.012$/Gb
and data is stored in this store class is for 60 days after 60 days data will then automatically goes into std.S3 Glaciar srorage class.
this storage class secure and low cost storage class for data archiving and you can store any amount of data at very low cost & its cost is 0.004$/Gb.

          


 
